include/ Directory Reference.TH "include/ Directory Reference" 3 "11 Oct 2006" "Version v0.9b" "PHAST" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
include/ Directory Reference \- 
.SS "Files"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbd_phylo_hmm.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbed.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIReading and writing of BED files. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcategory_map.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMapping between feature types and site categories. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcomplex.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fI\fBComplex\fP numbers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcomplex_matrix.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMatrices of complex numbers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcomplex_vector.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIVectors of complex numbers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBdgamma.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBeigen.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBem.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBfit_em.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBgap_patterns.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBgenepred.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIReading and writing of genepred files, used for UCSC Genome Browser. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBgff.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIReading and writing of sequence features in General Feature Format (GFF). \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBhashtable.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBhmm.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBindel_history.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBindel_mod.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBlists.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISimple array-based lists and supporting functions. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBlocal_alignment.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmaf.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIReading of alignments from MAF ('Multiple Alignment Format') files, as produced by MULTIZ and TBA. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmarkov_matrix.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmatrix.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmisc.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmotif.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmsa.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMultiple sequence alignments. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBnumerical_opt.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBphylo_hmm.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICode for phylo-HMMs. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBprob_matrix.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBprob_vector.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBpuzzler.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBqueues.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBregex.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBstacks.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBstringsplus.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBsubst_distrib.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBsubst_mods.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBsufficient_stats.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBtree_likelihoods.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBtree_model.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBtrees.h\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvector.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIVectors of doubles. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
