.TH "CategoryMap" 3 "22 Jun 2004" "PHAST" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
CategoryMap \- Category map object. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBncats\fP"
.br
.RI "\fItotal number of categories.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBCategoryRange\fP ** \fBranges\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIarray of \fBCategoryRange\fP objects.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int * \fBlabelling_precedence\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIarray defining order of precedence to use when the same position is labeled by multiple feature types.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int * \fBfill_precedence\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIarray defining order of precedence when filling unlabelled gaps between features (see function msa_label_categories in \fBmsa.c\fP).\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
Category map object.
.PP
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "int* CategoryMap::fill_precedence"
.PP
array defining order of precedence when filling unlabelled gaps between features (see function msa_label_categories in \fBmsa.c\fP).
.PP
Conventions are the same as for labelling_precedence. 
.SS "int* CategoryMap::labelling_precedence"
.PP
array defining order of precedence to use when the same position is labeled by multiple feature types.
.PP
The ith element gives the precedence level for the ith category. 0 means highest precedence; larger values indicate lower precedence. If unassigned, default is -1. 
.SS "\fBCategoryRange\fP** CategoryMap::ranges"
.PP
array of \fBCategoryRange\fP objects.
.PP
The ith element is the range for the ith category. In the case of a range category, there will be multiple pointers to the same \fBCategoryRange\fP object 

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for PHAST from the source code.
