.TH "GFF_Feature" 3 "11 Oct 2006" "Version v0.9b" "PHAST" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
GFF_Feature \- GFF_Feature structure.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "String * \fBseqname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIname of sequence (a single GFF file may describe multiple sequences) \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "String * \fBsource\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIsource of feature -- usually program or database \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "String * \fBfeature\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIfeature type; so far appears only semi-standardized \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBend\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIstart and end positions \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBscore\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIarbitrary floating-point score \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBstrand\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIone of '+', '-', and '.' \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBframe\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIreading frame \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "String * \fBattribute\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIstring describing auxiliary data in tag-value format \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBscore_is_null\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIwhether score is null (if null, represented as '.' in files) \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
GFF_Feature structure. 

Simply mirrors file-format spec (see http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/formats/GFF/GFF_Spec.shtml) 
.PP
.SH "Member Data Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "String* \fBGFF_Feature::attribute\fP"
.PP
string describing auxiliary data in tag-value format 
.PP
See http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/formats/GFF/GFF_Spec.shtml. 
.SS "int \fBGFF_Feature::end\fP"
.PP
start and end positions 
.PP
Convention is to start numbering with 1, and to make the range inclusive. 
.SS "String* \fBGFF_Feature::feature\fP"
.PP
feature type; so far appears only semi-standardized 
.PP
One suggestion is to use the EMBL/DDBJ/GenBank feature table as a standard 
.SS "int \fBGFF_Feature::frame\fP"
.PP
reading frame 
.PP
Should be 0-2 or GFF_NULL_FRAME (represented as '.' in files). NOTE: internal storage is not the same as the GFF standard (conversion is performed at input and output time). Internal storage is offset from start of codon mod 3, i.e., the positions of a codon are assigned frames 0, 1, 2. The GFF standard is no. positions to start of next codon, i.e., positions are assigned frames 0, 2, 1 
.SS "double \fBGFF_Feature::score\fP"
.PP
arbitrary floating-point score 
.PP
If null, set score_is_null (see below) 
.SS "int \fBGFF_Feature::score_is_null\fP"
.PP
whether score is null (if null, represented as '.' in files) 
.PP
This extra field necessary because all real numbers are potentially legitimate scores 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for PHAST from the source code.
